In this walkthrough, I'm going to examine CloudTrail logs and
attempt to set up monitoring in CloudWatch for a specific event type.
Let's take a look at the CloudTrail settings.
For this walkthrough, I have enabled CloudTrail to send logs to CloudWatch logs.
Let's see how that looks.
So in my CloudTrail settings,
I've enabled CloudTrail events to be logged in CloudWatch logs.
So I'm going to look for this log group in CloudWatch logs.
So let's go to CloudWatch.
On my CloudWatch logs,
I have a log group where all my CloudTrail events are sent.
I've also set up a metric filter which is designed
to identify any events related to S3 bucket encryption.
So let's take a look at that filter.
So this filter will flag any events which are
named PutBucket Encryption or DeleteBucketEncryption.
So this can provide monitoring on changes or removal
to the S3 bucket encryption settings on any of the S3 buckets in my account.
So I'm going to go into this metric and as you can see in the last three hours,
I'm going to change the graph.
So it shows me the total number of calls,
I'm going to choose sum and this is going
to show me that total number of calls in any given period.
So as you can see earlier today,
this metric was triggered a couple times.
So we've seen how to use CloudWatch logs to search for events coming out of CloudTrail
and we can take these metrics and create alarms when something
happens and get notified or we can create custom dashboards that will show these metrics.
So it's a very powerful way to be notified of when certain security events occur.
So in this walkthrough,
we've gotten a chance to examine how CloudTrail logs can
be monitored using CloudWatch metrics.
Next, we'll take a look at how we
can identify suspicious activity using the GuardDuty service.